If I had to start an Instagram account
from scratch, zero, zilch, nada, this
would be my exact plan to hit 10,000
followers as fast as possible. I'm
talking step-by-step what I recommend
doing on day one, day two, and so on.
Not only have I grown my own Instagram
account, but I've worked with hundreds
of students helping them grow. I audit
my students' Instagram accounts every
week, and these are the changes that one
must commit to if you're serious about
growing. As always, timestamps and
resources are below. Grab a pen and
paper. Let's jump in. Day one, set up
your account for a high follower
conversion rate. What is a follower
conversion rate and how can you set up
your account to get followers from the
very beginning? Your follower conversion
rate is the percentage of people who
decide to follow you after they visited
your profile. So, if 100 people visit
your profile, you want as many of them
to press that follow button as possible.
If zero of them follow you, that's an
indication that something about your
profile itself is off and needs to be
fixed. To set up your account for a high
follower conversion rate, all you have
to do is remember PBC:
positioning, branding, and clear bio,
call to action, and category. For
positioning, what type of content will
you be creating and who is your content
going to be for? You have to know the
answers to those questions. If you can't
clearly answer those questions, then
Instagram's algorithm is going to have a
really hard time connecting your content
to the right people. Here's proof from
Instagram themselves that this is what
you have to do to see success on their
platform. In a Meta article titled
Powered by AI, Instagram's Explore
Recommender System, they say, "By
building account embeddings, we're able
to more efficiently identify which
accounts are topically similar to each
other." Instagram's algorithm first
assigns a topic to your profile. If they
cannot identify one topic for you, you
will likely be posting for years and see
very very slow, if any, traction at all.
Unfortunately, I've seen this happen
time and time again to creators who are
truly amazing, talented, but they don't
want to pick one topic. They're posting
in so many different topics, lifestyle,
if you want to call it that, and they
post for years and years and they're
stuck at the same number. It's because
they refuse to pick a topic. So, if you
want to scale and grow quickly, you have
to pick one topic. Then, once Instagram
can identify what topic your account
falls under, what happens next? They say
in that same article, "By applying the
same techniques from their embedding
framework, we can predict accounts with
which a person is likely to interact in
a given session within the Instagram
app." AKA, then they can start
recommending your content to different
people on the app that are interested in
your specific topic. This is why
everybody says to niche down on
Instagram because their algorithm is
literally designed to favor accounts who
have one clear niche. And if you don't
want to niche down, that's okay, that's
fine. Just go to TikTok instead. Don't
be on Instagram. But, if you're dead set
on Instagram, you have to niche down.
So, for the example in this video, let's
say that I'm setting up my account from
zero. Let's do my positioning together.
What type of content will I be creating?
AKA, what topic am I going to create in?
Running. Let's say I'm going to create a
running account. Who will that content
be for? I could see myself creating
running content for beginners or people
who want to start their running journey,
too, and maybe don't have any
experience. Now, it's your turn. Pause
this video, write down your answers to
those two questions, because if you
clearly can't answer those two
questions, then Instagram's algorithm
won't be able to either. Next in PBC, we
have the B, which is branding. This is
where you're going to communicate your
positioning through the app, the photo,
username, and nameplate mainly for now.
My positioning is posting running
content for beginners. So, how can I
make that clear through my profile
photo, through maybe my username, and
especially my nameplate? With your
profile photo, you want to make sure
that it is a clear representation of you
with great lighting. If you can match
your photo to your niche, great. So, if
I'm in the running space, it would be
cool to have a picture of me running or
in running gear, maybe outdoors,
something that makes sense for the
content that I'm posting. While your
username doesn't have to be so
niche-specific, like I don't have to say
"Running with Milly," I can just say
"Milly Adrian." You know, it could be my
name. You still want your username to be
simple, easy to remember, and easy to
spell. Then, the most important part is
the nameplate. This is the bold section
of your profile. The reason this is so
important is because this section is
actually the most searchable on
Instagram. So, if I were to go to
Instagram right now and type in "running
coach" or "running tips," anyone with
that phrase in their nameplate, in the
bold part of their name, will show up in
my search results. So, ask yourself, how
do I want people to find me? How do I
want to be identified? What are some
search terms that my audience might be
typing into the search bar that I could
put in the bold part so I'm more
discoverable. We have my profile photo
set up, nice running pic. We have my
handle, let's go with running with
Milly. And for my nameplate, I'm going
to put Milly running for beginners. Then
finally, the final letter in PBC is our
C, which is really three different Cs.
We have clear bio, category, and call to
action. The bio is where a lot of people
mess up and they make it about them.
They're like,
"Oh, I'm from San Diego."
Or like they put like Pinterest quotes
and they're like,
"Follow your joy."
Now me making fun of my own quote. That
would not be a good bio. And your bio is
actually like a strong selling point to
increase your follower conversion. So
your bio is actually going to be why
somebody should follow you. You're going
to communicate the type of content that
they can expect from you or what they
will gain when they press that follow
button. You're basically telling them,
"Hey, if you follow me, this is what I
will do for you. This is how I'm going
to show up for you. This is what you
will learn. This is what you will gain."
So let's set up my bio. I would probably
say something like, "Helping beginner
runners start their journey with
practical tips and daily motivation."
You know, it can be as simple as that,
but that clearly tells them, "Hey, if
you are a beginner runner and you want
tips and inspiration, you're going to
want to press that follow button." Your
category is something that you could
select when setting up your profile
because again, it helps Instagram
understand what your account is about.
Literally under categories, they say,
"Categories help people find accounts
like yours." So if there's a category
that represents your niche, definitely
use that. And then finally, CTA or
strong call to action. I recommend every
content creator has a call to action
leading their followers someplace else.
I'm biased. I'm always going to
encourage creators, even if you're
starting from zero, create a freebie.
Get them onto your email list. Make a
digital product. You know, like take
them somewhere that's beneficial to you
and your business as you grow, not just,
my YouTube. Go check out my TikTok." Not
just things like that. So this is going
to lead me to what I would do on day two
and that is create a money magnet.
Technically, this step is optional
depending on what your specific goals
are with Instagram. For me, I know when
I was starting an Instagram account, my
end goal was to make money. I wanted to
be able to monetize being a content
creator. So, if that's also you, then I
would do this step. Basically, what
we're going to be doing is setting up
one stream of passive income now, so
that as your account grows, your income
is growing with you. This is something
that does not have to be hard to do at
all. All you have to do is pick some
sort of low-ticket offer that you think
your ideal follower would find valuable.
For example, I'm creating running
content targeted towards beginners. I'm
going to start thinking about how can I
monetize that? A few options. I could
offer one-on-one coaching if I'm
qualified to do that. I could create a
guide or downloadable with running
plans, maybe like a zero to 5K
done-for-you running plan, or even a
30-day running challenge. If teaching
and educating is into the direction that
I want to go, maybe I want to start a
membership, which can act as like a
virtual run club if I'm already running
every week. It'd be fun to have a
membership where once a week I'm like,
"All right, everybody, this is our run
together. Let's take pictures. Let's
share our journeys with each other. How
far did we run today?" You know, just
having a virtual run club could be fun.
Or, I could create more of like a
running essentials guide where I list
out all the essential products that you
would need to get started and throughout
your running journey. And all those
products are linked to affiliate links.
Literally, just start exploring all the
different ways that you could provide
something of value and sell it to a
future audience. If your answer is, "Oh,
I don't really think there's a way to
monetize this or to monetize or sell
anything or to create anything," you
probably have some sort of limiting
money belief happening because there is
always a way. If you don't know what to
sell, you could, one, look at other
people in your industry, other creators
in your niche, check out their links in
bio, check out to see how they're making
money, and see if there's anything you
can implement, too. Or, two, you can
literally ask Chat GPT. I know, so many
people refuse to use AI, but I love Chat
GPT. Chat GPT is so cool. You could
literally be like, "Hey, I'm a content
creator. I create running content to
encourage beginners how to blah blah
blah.
I want to create a low-ticket digital
product. What should I create? Give me a
list of 25
digital product ideas that I can start
selling to my audience for $10, for
$47." Right? Like, give it as much
information as possible. Ask it to come
up with a list of digital product ideas
for you, and it will spit out that list.
Once you have a product or some sort of
idea for how you want to monetize as you
grow, the setup for it is super simple.
All you have to do is set up a Stan
Store. Stan literally lets you monetize
in almost every thinkable way as a
content creator. So, Stan Store acts as
your link in bio, whether you're going
to start a membership, sell a digital
product, sell an online course, offer
one-on-one coaching. No matter what it
is, you can set that up on your Stan
Store and have everything be handled,
paid directly through there. There's
like little to no tech involvement
needed at all. So, what I would do, I
would create my digital product in
Canva. Once I have it finished, I'm
going to export it as a PDF, head over
to my Stan Store, create a new product,
select the digital product option, and
then fill in my digital product info.
Going to give it a good title, good
description. I'm going to say how much
it's going to be. Let's say it's $27.
I'm going to upload that PDF right there
and publish it onto my Stan Store. Then,
going to go back a step, we're going to
add our call to action to our bio
saying, "Download your 0 to 5K running
plan here." Then, when people click on
my link in bio, they can easily purchase
the product right there, one click of a
button. It is that simple. I love Stan.
I'm obsessed. I've been obsessed for
years. I'm very excited to say that this
video is sponsored by Stan. I've been
talking about for forever without them
sponsoring my content, so I'm stoked to
be able to work with them a little bit
closer. So, if you want to set up your
own Stan store, I'll be sure to leave a
link down below. Okay, now that your
account is officially set up to convert
followers and sales, it's time to move
on to day three. Day three, you're going
to preload your content bank. This day
is about one, starting to create your
content bank, aka the never-ending list
of video ideas that you could pull from
for when you choose to film, and two,
choosing your first nine videos to
prepare before you post. Let's create
our content bank. For the time being, we
will be focusing on Reels. If your goal
is growth, focus on Reels for the time
being. That's because Reels is the only
piece of content that was created with
the algorithm and intention to reach new
people. Instagram has said time and time
again that Reels is to help you reach
new eyes. So, in the beginning, focus on
Reels. Don't worry about photos,
carousels, etc. What you're going to do
is open Instagram search and type in the
type of content you're going to be
creating. In my case, it is running.
We're going to just take a look at what
those other suggested search terms are.
We see running tips, running motivation,
running outfits, anything that feels in
alignment with the type of content
you're going to create, just select it.
I'm going to take a look at running
tips. We're going to make sure we're
studying just Reels here. And as we
scroll, we're going to look at some of
the most popular viral Reels and save
some of the most popular viral ones to a
folder to analyze and maybe recreate
later. This folder I'm going to create
is going to be running tips, and again,
I'm going to just save some of the most
popular Reels to this folder. If you
want to take it an extra step, you can
make sure that you're only saving recent
Reels as opposed to Reels that are
showing up from like over a year ago.
So, if you could save Reels within the
past three months that are performing
well, you're going to have recent proof
of what is currently working in your
industry. After I finish going through
those reels, I'm going to go back to
search and do the same thing again with
those other suggested terms. So, now
instead of running tips, I'm going to
take a look at running outfits. Create a
new folder, start saving some videos
there. I could do this with the
suggested search results or other ideas
that I have. So, if I don't see running
gear, I can still type in running gear
and look for the top performing videos
there. Save. We're just kind of going
into batch save mode, finding videos
that we're like, "Ooh, I like that. That
makes sense for me. Let me recreate that
later." And just saving them to folders.
After about 30 minutes of building up
all of this inspiration, you're going to
go to your saved folders, look through
all of them, and you're going to pick
nine videos to be your first nine that
you post. The first nine does not have
to be perfect. No, no, no, no. That's
not what we're going for here. We are
simply finding nine different video
types to create and test. So, one video
that you're going to create in your
first nine is going to be a talking head
video. Maybe another video from the
first nine is more of a voiceover video.
Another one could be trending audio
where there's just B-roll happening.
Another one could be a lip-sync video
where you kind of lip-sync what the
audio is saying and then add some
relatable text. You could also play
around with delivering different types
of value in your content. So, one video
in the first nine could be educational.
One video could be more inspirational.
Another one could be focused on
entertainment, maybe kind of like a more
run with me vlog. And another one could
be more like that lip-sync with the
relatable text. You just want to have as
much variety in your first nine as
possible to one, push your boundaries a
little bit, challenge yourself as a
creator, create content that you
wouldn't normally create, but also to
test to see what's going to work well in
your industry for you, what feels good
to create, and you're just going to be
in like test mode. As you're going
through your folders and you're finding
videos that are like, "Ooh, this would
be a good one for my first nine." You
could add it to any sort of content
calendar or notes app that you want so
that you could keep track of like okay
these are the first nine videos that I'm
going to film. A lot of people like to
use notes app. When I was a solopreneur,
I was a die hard Trello fan. Right now
I'm using ClickUp because I have a team,
but find something that works for you
where you can keep track of all the
videos you'll be working on. If you've
learned something new so far, be sure to
give this video a thumbs up because then
YouTube can push this video to other
creators like yourself who might find
this valuable. And if you learned two
new things by the end of this video,
consider subscribing. It's a great way
to support me, my channel, helps
encourage me to continue to create free
content like this for you every week.
Now for day four, I'm going to focus on
batch filming as many videos as I can.
Day five is when I'm going to batch
edit. When you are filming and editing
your video, the one thing that I'll say
here is to make sure you implement hook
layering. I don't want to spend too much
time on this because I already have a
video that covers hook layering in
depth, but to see the best results with
short-form content these days, you
really need to master the art of a good
hook. And not just a good hook, but hook
layering. Hook layering is when you
layer multiple types of hooks within the
first three seconds of your video. You
have the text hook, which is the text
that appears on screen of your reel at
the very beginning, the audible hook,
which is what somebody hears at the
beginning of the video, and the visual
hook, which is what the person actually
sees when watching your video. If you
could implement all three of those
things really, really well,
you are golden, you are winning, you
have really mastered the hook and the
art of short-form content. Again, I'm
kind of breezing over filming and
editing because I kind of want to keep
this video as strategy focused as
possible, and I already have lots of
videos talking about hook layering, and
I also have a video talking about how to
film and edit aesthetic reels. So, I'll
be sure to link them all the places,
card above, description below, so that
you could watch those videos next for a
further deep dive on those. Day six,
we're going to prep our drafts. This is
where we're getting, ideally, our first
nine into Instagram in the drafts with
the text, with the captions, with
everything set and ready to post. First
thing you're going to do when you have a
video uploaded to your drafts is to save
the backup. I cannot tell you how many
times I've had students be like, "Oh my
gosh, Instagram just deleted all of my
drafts." And I'm like, "Yeah, that
happens sometimes." So, save your video,
even if it's like perfect, you're going
to post it in an hour, just save a
backup without the audio. That's fine.
Do that. Next, let's talk about
captions. With your captions, again, if
your goal is growth, you want to put in
as many keywords as possible. Yes, there
are creators that have fun in the
captions and say things like, "OMG,
anyone else relate?"
I've done that. But, if you're trying to
grow quicker, you want to help feed the
algorithm what your video is going to be
about. So, if the video you created was
inspired by the Instagram search phrase
running tips, make sure you use that
phrase in your caption, in your pop-up
text, and maybe even your hashtags. This
is important because not only does this
help Instagram understand what type of
content you're creating and know who to
push your content to, but it also helps
potentially rank your content in
Instagram search. So, if I go to
Instagram search and I look up sourdough
bread, if a video has sourdough bread
with pop-up text or in the captions,
they're going to pop up in my search
results because that creator was very
intentional with summarizing what that
video is going to be about. They
utilized SEO as part of their strategy,
so try to be as intentional with
keywords as possible. If this whole
keywords thing is confusing to you,
again, I have a video teaching about
Instagram SEO, so go watch that video
next. Since I did touch on hashtags,
what I would say for my strategy if I
was starting from zero, I would have
zero hashtag strategy. I would not care.
I would not care. I would ignore them. I
don't care. I would spend maybe 10
seconds being like, "#runningtips
#amazonrunninggear
#running."
Done. How long was that? What was the
timer? That's how long I would spend
worrying about hashtags because
Instagram themselves have said before,
time and time again, hashtags do not
help with growth. They do not help
getting you followers. It is just an
extra tool that you could use, but it is
not the make or break it point. It's
just not. So, I wouldn't even worry
about hashtags other than 20 seconds of
thinking about them, truly. With your
cover photo on your Reels, I would make
sure that all of my cover photos clearly
explain what that Reel is going to be
about. That way, when somebody lands on
my profile, their first impression with
my first nine, they see exactly five
running tips for beginners. How to
breathe while running. They see exactly
what each Reel is, and they know exactly
the type of content that I will be
delivering. Therefore, it increases that
follower conversion rate even more
because there is so much clarity behind
the content that I'm creating. So, yes,
be intentional with your cover photos.
Make sure the text is easy to read,
especially from the feed view. With our
drafts prepared now and a backlog of
ideas ready for you to film, how often
should you post? Day seven, let's talk
about start your posting schedule. The
goal is to post as often as possible
without getting burnt out. Obviously, we
know the more you post, the more likely
you'll grow quicker. But, longevity is
more important. Going viral rapidly,
yeah, great, woo, love that. But, what's
more important for being a content
creator is finding a schedule that is
realistic for you to keep up with for 2
years. If you want to grow an Instagram,
be an Instagram creator, you got to keep
it up. You don't just do it for 2 months
and be like, "Woo, I did it." And then
never post again. You have to find a
rhythm and a way to create on a
consistent hamster wheel that doesn't
burn you out. In a way that matches your
life and your unique lifestyle that you
have. Even Adam Mosseri, head of
Instagram, has emphasized this. And it's
funny because he was directly asked,
"How often should I post?" And he
doesn't give you a number. I don't think
it's because he's ignoring, "Hey, you
should post this much." I think he just
doesn't want to say an unrealistic
number for some people and then they
burn themselves out. It's because
there's truly no magic number. It's do
what works for you. For me, on my It's
Modern Millie account, I post three
times a week. But we're talking about
our running account today. Our running
account that we're creating. Let's say
also for that account, I only want to
post three times a week. Monday,
Wednesday, Friday. That works well for
me. That means that's three posts a
week. If I have my first nine created,
I'm actually set for 3 weeks. 3 6 9. I'm
set for 3 weeks. Now I could go in and
schedule those reels to auto post for me
or just post live every morning Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, which actually gets
you better results. For me, I've tested
auto posting and posting live, and I
feel like posting live my engagement is
always better. Now days 8 through 14,
you're going to be mastering the hamster
wheel. Now that you have started
posting, in order to maintain whatever
schedule you've created, you have to
master that content creator hamster
wheel because it never stops. You got to
keep posting and you got to find a
system that works for you. If you were
able to easily batch nine videos in a
day after doing your content research,
maybe that's your routine. Maybe every
other week is batching nine videos. If
that did not work out for you the first
time around and you're like, "I did not
batch nine videos. I got three done."
That's fine. You tested, you tried to
see what you were capable of for that
day. Three videos in a batch session
works for you. Great. Ask yourself,
should I do batch sessions once a week?
Maybe twice a week. Continue to test and
see how content creation can fit into
your day-to-day lifestyle if you want to
be a day-to-day content creator. Day 15,
learn from the data and level up your
strategy. I put this at day 15, but you
might not have enough analytics yet
depending on how often you're posting.
Ideally, day whatever, you're going to
analyze the first nine after they've
been posted. You're going to study three
signals in your insights: likes, shares,
and watch time. With watch time actually
being the most valuable signal. I feel
like everybody says, "Oh, Instagram says
shares is the most valuable." But
recently Adam Mosseri posted this reel,
he does say likes, shares, watch time,
they're all great, but he says watch
time's actually the most valuable
signal. Watch time is basically how much
of your video did somebody watch. Check
to see of your nine videos, which video
received the best watch time. Keep that
in the back of your mind. Which video
received the most shares? Keep that in
the back of your mind. You could even
check to see which video got you the
most follows cuz if it got you follows
and you recreate that same type of
content, you'll probably get more
follows. Keep that in the back of your
mind. Not only are you going to study
which posts are working well and
performed well, but you also want to
keep an eye on the posts that didn't
perform well so that you don't go down
that same path of trying to create that
same type of content or you could learn
and be like, "Okay, why didn't these
perform well? Was it my hook? Was my
hook luring lazy? Was I being lazy when
I created that?" What do you need to do
to improve on that concept? Studying
your analytics is going to be key in
unlocking the secrets to your specific
growth because everybody's account is so
different and the type of content that's
going to work for you is going to look
differently than your friend and me. So,
I recommend studying your analytics a
minimum at least once every 30 days. If
you're posting every day Monday through
Friday, maybe make it a routine at the
end of the week, check that whole week's
performance and see which videos were
performing well and didn't perform well.
You have to be willing to dive into your
content from an unbiased perspective and
very analytical to study and be curious
and ask yourself, "Okay, what could I
do? What's working? What are the numbers
saying?" So, just get comfortable with
studying and being curious about your
content. Day 16, keep learning and
trying new things. If you're a creator
who is wanting to grow as quickly as
possible on Instagram, I get it. I've
been there. I remember being in the
depths of like, "Okay, how do I make
this dang thing happen?" The one thing
that I know worked for me was just
continuing to educate myself and being
open to trying new things, trying new
video styles, adapting to Instagram
updates. Follow creators that teach
Instagram strategies. Some of my
favorite creators are Monti. I love
Monti's content. He has an amazing
membership where he helps creating reels
that will help you go viral. Monti is
such a great, not only human, but
resource when it comes to Instagram. He
has both an Instagram and YouTube, so
check both of those out. You could also
follow Jade. Jade is a dear friend of
mine. I love her so much and I love how
practical, straightforward she is with
her teachings on Instagram. She has,
again, Instagram and YouTube. Hey
Dominik here on YouTube. I love his
style of teaching. It's very analytical,
practical, straightforward. Again, I
love the no fluff type of approach and I
just love that he teaches based off of
facts, stats, numbers, and proven
methods that have worked. Those are some
of my top people that I recommend
following whether on Instagram or
YouTube. And if you do check out their
content and you do love what they're
creating, just let them know I sent you.
You'd be like, "Hey, heard about you
from Milly. So stoked that we're
connected now." That. Now, the next
thing that you're going to do is you're
going to watch this video next because
YouTube thinks you'll like it. Thank you
so much for watching. I will see you in
the next one. Follow your joy. Bye.